CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing changes to [cilium.io](https://cilium.io/)

:bee: Thanks for your help improving the project!

## Blog posts

Our blog page includes original blog posts about Cilium, as well as links to external articles hosted elsewhere. If you'd like to submit a blog post to Cilium.io please check that your article meets the following guidelines. We welcome PRs, but if you'd like to discuss a possible submission first please start a conversation in [#cilium-website in Slack][slack].

Content guidelines:

- Posts should be valuable content for the Cilium community
- Posts should not be vendor pitches, and should focus on the open source Cilium project
- Posts hosted on cilium.io should be original content. You can submit a link to an external article instead of copying content.
- All content is contributed under the CC-BY-4.0 license

Each post should be in one of the following categories:

- **Technology** - technical posts about how a Cilium feature works. This includes tutorials, walk-throughs and examples
- **Release** - technical coverage of changes in a Cilium release
- **Community** - case studies, community initiatives and events, and other non-technical news

Links to posts hosted elsewhere are also given the **External** tag automatically.

See the [README](https://github.com/cilium/cilium.io#how-to-create-blog-post) for documentation on how to submit a post or external link.

## Listing Cilium distributions

The Cilium web site includes a list of enterprise-ready, supported Cilium [distributions](https://cilium.io/enterprise).

To ensure that Cilium contributors are acknowledged for their work, distributions listed here should clearly indicate their use of the Cilium project on their web site and other marketing materials.

A distribution is expected to have at least one maintainer who contributes meaningfully to the upstream codebase and community. For example, a distribution with a maintainer who is also a Cilium committer would meet the threshold of meaningful contribution. It is at the discretion of Cilium committers to assess whether other types of contribution are sufficient.

In the future we want to have conformance tests that will help guarantee a minimum standard that any user can expect from a Cilium distribution. Distributions will only be listed on the Cilium web site if they pass those conformance tests.

In the absence of conformance testing, it will be at the discretion of Cilium maintainers whether a project or product is acceptable. End user interviews, project demos, and more can help with this assessment.

## Listing Cilium training

In order to be listed as a [Cilium Training Partner](https://cilium.io/enterprise), the following requirements must be met:

- Training partner must have a track record of providing high-quality trainings for open source technology and projects
- Trainings must cover Cilium Open Source or an [approved distribution](https://cilium.io/enterprise)
- The provided Cilium training will be reviewed by a Cilium committer to assess quality, accuracy, and completeness.
- Have a landing page that includes information on your Cilium training.

## Listing Cilium Events

Please see the [Event Guidelines](https://github.com/cilium/cilium.io/blob/main/Events-Guidelines.md).

## Listing Labs

In order to be listed on the [Cilium Labs Page](https://cilium.io/labs), the following requirements must be met:

- The PR adding the lab needs to be approved by a Cilium Committer
- The lab must focus on the open source project
- The lab must be solely about the Cilium project and/or related sub-projects
- The lab must put the project in a positive light

## Documentation

The source for the Cilium docs is hosted in the main [cilium/cilium](https://github.com/cilium/cilium) repository.

## Other changes

Please raise ideas for any other changes or improvements to the web site in the [#cilium-website channel in Slack][slack].

[slack]: https://cilium.slack.com/archives/C033BUL97BK

Commit message:

fix: implement dual licensing (Apache-2.0 for code, CC-BY-4.0 for content)
Fixes: #848
Signed-off-by: Pavan More <pavansmore05@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing changes to [cilium.io](https://cilium.io/)

:bee: Thanks for your help improving the project!

## Blog posts

Our blog page includes original blog posts about Cilium, as well as links to external articles hosted elsewhere. If you'd like to submit a blog post to Cilium.io please check that your article meets the following guidelines. We welcome PRs, but if you'd like to discuss a possible submission first please start a conversation in [#cilium-website in Slack][slack].

Content guidelines:

- Posts should be valuable content for the Cilium community
- Posts should not be vendor pitches, and should focus on the open source Cilium project
- Posts hosted on cilium.io should be original content. You can submit a link to an external article instead of copying content.
- Content contributions (blog posts, documentation, images) are licensed under the [CC BY 4.0](LICENSE-CC-BY-4.0) license
- Code contributions are licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](LICENSE)

Each post should be in one of the following categories:

- **Technology** - technical posts about how a Cilium feature works. This includes tutorials, walk-throughs and examples
- **Release** - technical coverage of changes in a Cilium release
- **Community** - case studies, community initiatives and events, and other non-technical news

Links to posts hosted elsewhere are also given the **External** tag automatically.

See the [README](https://github.com/cilium/cilium.io#how-to-create-blog-post) for documentation on how to submit a post or external link.

## Listing Cilium distributions

The Cilium web site includes a list of enterprise-ready, supported Cilium [distributions](https://cilium.io/enterprise).

To ensure that Cilium contributors are acknowledged for their work, distributions listed here should clearly indicate their use of the Cilium project on their web site and other marketing materials.

A distribution is expected to have at least one maintainer who contributes meaningfully to the upstream codebase and community. For example, a distribution with a maintainer who is also a Cilium committer would meet the threshold of meaningful contribution. It is at the discretion of Cilium committers to assess whether other types of contribution are sufficient.

In the future we want to have conformance tests that will help guarantee a minimum standard that any user can expect from a Cilium distribution. Distributions will only be listed on the Cilium web site if they pass those conformance tests.

In the absence of conformance testing, it will be at the discretion of Cilium maintainers whether a project or product is acceptable. End user interviews, project demos, and more can help with this assessment.

## Listing Cilium training

In order to be listed as a [Cilium Training Partner](https://cilium.io/enterprise), the following requirements must be met:

- Training partner must have a track record of providing high-quality trainings for open source technology and projects
- Trainings must cover Cilium Open Source or an [approved distribution](https://cilium.io/enterprise)
- The provided Cilium training will be reviewed by a Cilium committer to assess quality, accuracy, and completeness.
- Have a landing page that includes information on your Cilium training.

## Listing Cilium Events

Please see the [Event Guidelines](https://github.com/cilium/cilium.io/blob/main/Events-Guidelines.md).

## Listing Labs

In order to be listed on the [Cilium Labs Page](https://cilium.io/labs), the following requirements must be met:

- The PR adding the lab needs to be approved by a Cilium Committer
- The lab must focus on the open source project
- The lab must be solely about the Cilium project and/or related sub-projects
- The lab must put the project in a positive light

## Documentation

The source for the Cilium docs is hosted in the main [cilium/cilium](https://github.com/cilium/cilium) repository.

## Other changes

Please raise ideas for any other changes or improvements to the web site in the [#cilium-website channel in Slack][slack].

[slack]: https://cilium.slack.com/archives/C033BUL97BK
