src/posts/2022-05-10-kubecon-eu-talks/index.md, before:

---
path: '/blog/2022/05/06/cilium-kubecon-eu-talks'
date: '2022-05-06T17:00:00.000Z'
title: 'Cilium Talks at KubeCon EU 2022'
isPopular: false
isFeatured: true
ogImage: ciliumtalks.jpg
ogSummary: "Find all the Cilium talk at KubeCon EU"
categories:
  - Community
tags:
  - Cilium
  - KubeCon
---

![Cilium Talks at KubeCon](ciliumtalks.jpg)

*May 6th, 2022*  
*Author: Bill Mulligan, Isovalent*

The first in-person KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU since 2019 is just around the corner and we can’t wait to see the Cilium community again outside a Zoom meeting. In case you lost track, that means we last met in Europe at [Cilium 1.5](https://cilium.io/blog/2019/04/24/cilium-15) and boy have there been a lot of updates to Cilium in the meantime (we were able to meet at KubeCon NA in the fall, but missed most of the people outside the US). With that much of a gap, there is a lot to catch up on and the KubeCon schedule has not failed to deliver. The talks cover both technical talks from Cilium contributors and end user stories from people putting Cilium into production. You will be able to catch presentations on everything from Cilium Clustermesh to Cilium for telco workloads to a tour of the Cilium service mesh. Let’s dive into each of the talks below.

[IKEA Private Cloud, eBPF Based Networking, Load Balancing, and Observability with Cilium](https://sched.co/zrPW)

Monday May 16, 2022 10:45 - 11:15 CEST

The digital systems of IKEA are situated in public cloud and private data centers around the world. In this talk we’ll highlight some of the challenges – and opportunities - we faced in setting up a large scale, multi-cluster distributed Kubernetes environment across our data centers. We’ll share how we have used Cilium and its eBPF features to have a better scaling profile, to improve observability and even to replace some of our proprietary load balancers. 



* Connecting Kubernetes workloads across our BGP network 
* Protecting multi-tenant workloads with multi-cluster network policy 
* Cilium support for multi-homed pods * Mimicking availability zones with Cilium ClusterMesh 
* Use Cilium with XDP, ServiceType Loadbalancer and Ingress to replace our proprietary load balancer fronting workload. 

You’ll leave this talk understanding how you can use Cilium and its eBPF capabilities to build and instrument your network and obtain great observability.

[Leveraging Cilium and SRv6 for Telco Networking ](https://sched.co/zso2)

Monday May 16, 2022 10:50 - 11:20 CEST

In this session, Daniel Bernier from Bell Canada will be demonstrating how Cilium and its eBPF data plane was extended to support telco networking requirements in a cloud-native way. He will demonstrate how Cilium can provide network segmentation and Multi-VRF support with or without the use of multiple interfaces. With this new approach, he will also explain how to build simple multi-cluster VPN or simple integration to an MPLS provider network by leveraging natively IPv6 and SRv6.

[Connecting Klusters on the edge with deep dive into Cilium Cluster Mesh](https://sched.co/zsAE)

Tuesday May 17, 2022 11:35 - 11:45 CEST

Edge computing can require connecting hundreds of clusters across disparate locations and infrastructures. Without a networking solution to manage this scale and complexity, you will just have a bunch of computers talking to themselves rather than each other and your customers. Cilium is the next generation, eBPF powered open-source Cloud Native Networking solution, providing security, observability, scalability, and superior performance. Cilium has joined the CNCF as an incubating project. In this session, you’ll learn how you can leverage Cilium Cluster Mesh for providing connectivity for load-balancing, observability, and security between nodes across multiple clusters, enabling simple, high-performance cross-cluster connectivity at the edge. We’ll explore how Cluster Mesh allows endpoints in connected clusters to communicate while providing full security policy enforcement. The audience will walk away with an appreciation for how eBPF can help solve their networking challenges at the edge.

[Transparent Live Migration of Services Between Kubernetes Clusters](https://sched.co/ytpo)

Thursday May 19, 2022 15:25 - 16:00 CEST

Operating a distributed database on a single Kubernetes cluster is interesting, but how about transparently migrating it from one cluster to another–potentially between different cloud providers– without impacting user workloads? Kubernetes has become the de facto default deployment for ArangoDB, a distributed Graph database. Consider for example ArangoDB Oasis, a managed Cloud Database service with over 200 deployments (aka highly available database clusters) across three major cloud providers and many regions. But outages, (Kubernetes) upgrades, resource considerations, and cost optimizations require the underlying infrastructure to be very dynamic including migration between Kubernetes cluster, datacenter, or even cloud providers. This talk provides insights into how Kube-Arango, the OSS operator for ArangoDB, supports live migration of distributed stateful applications without impact on users. Challenges in such migration include for example networking, DNS, and persistent data.

[Cilium: Welcome, Vision and Updates](https://sched.co/ytq0)

Thursday May 19, 2022 15:25 - 16:00 CEST

If you’re interested in using Cilium, or contributing to the project, this session is for you. Our agenda for this session: 1. Introduction to Cilium A brief overview of the origin and vision for Cilium. 2. Working with Cilium An end user's perspective of using Cilium. 3. Cilium Service Mesh Cilium can be used as a highly efficient service mesh data plane. Let’s discuss the learnings from our beta, and the upcoming roadmap. We will leave time for Q&A, and an opportunity to meet Cilium maintainers and contributors.

[Choosing Cloud Native Technologies for the Journey to Multi-cloud](https://sched.co/ytpu)

Thursday May 19, 2022 15:25 - 16:00 CEST

Building, deploying and maintaining systems has become increasingly more complicated in recent years. Now, as engineers look toward migrating to multi-cloud architectures, systems and processes may need to be migrated to new technologies. But what choices are available, how do they fit together and how can the CNCF landscape help? This talk discusses the cloud native technologies that can be used to convert to a multi-cloud architecture and highlights some of the lessons learned from taking this journey on at Form3. The audience will learn: - How to decide if multi-cloud is essential for them - The fundamentals of deploying services across multiple clouds with Kubernetes - How to leverage Cilium to mesh together multiple clusters - The basics of event sourcing using NATS in the multi-cloud world - Resilient and performant data storage using CockroachDB This talk is useful for any new comers to the cloud native landscape, as well as those curious about going multi-cloud!

[Kubernetes Networking 101](https://sched.co/ytrV)

Friday May 20, 2022 11:00 - 12:30 CEST

Kubernetes Networking 101 will introduce attendees to the world of network communications in a hands on Cloud Native setting. This talk delivers a high level but completely practical end to end look at service communications within and without a Kubernetes cluster. Attendees will see how the many facets of Kubernetes networking come together to enable powerful communications solutions first hand. The tutorial begins with the simplest types of service communications, using Kubernetes services, DNS (CoreDNS) and CNI plugins (Cilium) to facilitate interprocess communications and load balancing. The tutorial builds additional scenarios on this base, including ingress (Emissary/Envoy), NodePort / HostPort features, load balancing (Metal-lb) and finally a short look at service mesh functionality (Linkerd). Upon completion of this tutorial, attendees will have a clear understanding of the Kubernetes communications possibilities and pointers to next steps in the learning journey.

[Logs Told Us It Was DNS, It Felt Like DNS, It Had To Be DNS, It Wasn’t DNS](https://sched.co/ytrw)

Friday May 20, 2022 11:55 - 12:30 CEST

It all started with a team reaching out because they had DNS issues during rolling updates. Business as usual when you host hundreds of applications on dozens of Kubernetes clusters… Four weeks later: We are reading kernel code to understand the corner cases of dropping Martian packets. Could this be the connection between gRPC client reconnect algorithms and the overflowing conntrack table we can feel but not see? In time, we solved the issue. And for once… it wasn't DNS! In this talk, we will focus on one of the most complex incidents we have faced in our Kubernetes environment. We will go through the debugging steps in detail, dive deep into the mysterious behaviors we discovered and explain how we finally addressed the incident by simply removing three lines of code.

[Better Bandwidth Management with eBPF](https://sched.co/ytsQ)

Friday May 20, 2022 14:00 - 14:35 CEST

Kubernetes provides many knobs for managing common system resources such as vCPUs and memory limits per Pod, but often forgotten is the effect of unbounded network communication in a cluster. A large churn of packets from several services can starve bandwidth for other services. Also, out of the box TCP congestion management is not optimal for Internet-facing services. In this talk we will explore how eBPF can be leveraged to dynamically insert logic for flexible, efficient and scalable rate limiting and bandwidth management on a per-Pod basis. This talk details: - The scalability limits of token bucket filters by the bandwidth plugin, and why EDT (Earliest Departure Time) combined with eBPF is a major step forward. - How TCP congestion control with BBR can now be leveraged for Pods thanks to eBPF for significantly improving application latency and throughput. - The benefits of enforcing bandwidth limits at the egress point and considerations when to use ingress enforcement.

[A Guided Tour of Cilium Service Mesh](https://sched.co/yttj)

Friday May 20, 2022 16:00 - 16:35 CEST

The Cilium project is adding Service Mesh features to its existing eBPF-enabled, identity-aware Kubernetes networking capabilities. This demo-driven talk explores how this works, and shows why it’s now possible to create a service mesh without sidecars. - Demonstrate why, before eBPF, the sidecar model was necessary for accessing an application pod’s network traffic - Explore how Cilium uses eBPF programs to connect Kubernetes endpoints - Show how this makes the sidecar model unnecessary for identity-aware connectivity - Demonstrate an example Cilium Service Mesh in use - Compare the resources used (in both userspace and the kernel) for both models Along the way, this talk will clarify some container and kernel concepts so that attendees can leave with a mental model of how eBPF-enabled service mesh really works.

Make sure you stop by the Cilium booth to get your Cilium swag and if you are visiting virtually, we will have virtual office hours on Wednesday 18th May 12:30-13:15 CEST. See you there!

Commit message:

add service mesh panel
Signed-off-by: Bill Mulligan <billmulligan516@gmail.com>

src/posts/2022-05-10-kubecon-eu-talks/index.md, after:

---
path: '/blog/2022/05/06/cilium-kubecon-eu-talks'
date: '2022-05-06T17:00:00.000Z'
title: 'Cilium Talks at KubeCon EU 2022'
isPopular: false
isFeatured: true
ogImage: ciliumtalks.jpg
ogSummary: "Find all the Cilium talk at KubeCon EU"
categories:
  - Community
tags:
  - Cilium
  - KubeCon
---

![Cilium Talks at KubeCon](ciliumtalks.jpg)

*May 6th, 2022*  
*Author: Bill Mulligan, Isovalent*

The first in-person KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU since 2019 is just around the corner and we can’t wait to see the Cilium community again outside a Zoom meeting. In case you lost track, that means we last met in Europe at [Cilium 1.5](https://cilium.io/blog/2019/04/24/cilium-15) and boy have there been a lot of updates to Cilium in the meantime (we were able to meet at KubeCon NA in the fall, but missed most of the people outside the US). With that much of a gap, there is a lot to catch up on and the KubeCon schedule has not failed to deliver. The talks cover both technical talks from Cilium contributors and end user stories from people putting Cilium into production. You will be able to catch presentations on everything from Cilium Clustermesh to Cilium for telco workloads to a tour of the Cilium service mesh. Let’s dive into each of the talks below.

[IKEA Private Cloud, eBPF Based Networking, Load Balancing, and Observability with Cilium](https://sched.co/zrPW)

Monday May 16, 2022 10:45 - 11:15 CEST

The digital systems of IKEA are situated in public cloud and private data centers around the world. In this talk we’ll highlight some of the challenges – and opportunities - we faced in setting up a large scale, multi-cluster distributed Kubernetes environment across our data centers. We’ll share how we have used Cilium and its eBPF features to have a better scaling profile, to improve observability and even to replace some of our proprietary load balancers. 



* Connecting Kubernetes workloads across our BGP network 
* Protecting multi-tenant workloads with multi-cluster network policy 
* Cilium support for multi-homed pods * Mimicking availability zones with Cilium ClusterMesh 
* Use Cilium with XDP, ServiceType Loadbalancer and Ingress to replace our proprietary load balancer fronting workload. 

You’ll leave this talk understanding how you can use Cilium and its eBPF capabilities to build and instrument your network and obtain great observability.

[Leveraging Cilium and SRv6 for Telco Networking ](https://sched.co/zso2)

Monday May 16, 2022 10:50 - 11:20 CEST

In this session, Daniel Bernier from Bell Canada will be demonstrating how Cilium and its eBPF data plane was extended to support telco networking requirements in a cloud-native way. He will demonstrate how Cilium can provide network segmentation and Multi-VRF support with or without the use of multiple interfaces. With this new approach, he will also explain how to build simple multi-cluster VPN or simple integration to an MPLS provider network by leveraging natively IPv6 and SRv6.

[Connecting Klusters on the edge with deep dive into Cilium Cluster Mesh](https://sched.co/zsAE)

Tuesday May 17, 2022 11:35 - 11:45 CEST

Edge computing can require connecting hundreds of clusters across disparate locations and infrastructures. Without a networking solution to manage this scale and complexity, you will just have a bunch of computers talking to themselves rather than each other and your customers. Cilium is the next generation, eBPF powered open-source Cloud Native Networking solution, providing security, observability, scalability, and superior performance. Cilium has joined the CNCF as an incubating project. In this session, you’ll learn how you can leverage Cilium Cluster Mesh for providing connectivity for load-balancing, observability, and security between nodes across multiple clusters, enabling simple, high-performance cross-cluster connectivity at the edge. We’ll explore how Cluster Mesh allows endpoints in connected clusters to communicate while providing full security policy enforcement. The audience will walk away with an appreciation for how eBPF can help solve their networking challenges at the edge.

[The Future of Service Mesh: Is eBPF a Silver Lining or a Silver Bullet](https://sched.co/zsaO)

Tuesday, May 17 2022 16:05 - 17:05 CEST

Service mesh implementations normally take one of two forms: a proxy per node, or a proxy per workload (the so-called "sidecar"). Linkerd went from A to B. Cilium is suggesting we can go from B to A. Is eBPF a savior, or are we hyper-optimizing a tiny piece of the datapath? And what else might the future of service mesh hold?

[Transparent Live Migration of Services Between Kubernetes Clusters](https://sched.co/ytpo)

Thursday May 19, 2022 15:25 - 16:00 CEST

Operating a distributed database on a single Kubernetes cluster is interesting, but how about transparently migrating it from one cluster to another–potentially between different cloud providers– without impacting user workloads? Kubernetes has become the de facto default deployment for ArangoDB, a distributed Graph database. Consider for example ArangoDB Oasis, a managed Cloud Database service with over 200 deployments (aka highly available database clusters) across three major cloud providers and many regions. But outages, (Kubernetes) upgrades, resource considerations, and cost optimizations require the underlying infrastructure to be very dynamic including migration between Kubernetes cluster, datacenter, or even cloud providers. This talk provides insights into how Kube-Arango, the OSS operator for ArangoDB, supports live migration of distributed stateful applications without impact on users. Challenges in such migration include for example networking, DNS, and persistent data.

[Cilium: Welcome, Vision and Updates](https://sched.co/ytq0)

Thursday May 19, 2022 15:25 - 16:00 CEST

If you’re interested in using Cilium, or contributing to the project, this session is for you. Our agenda for this session: 1. Introduction to Cilium A brief overview of the origin and vision for Cilium. 2. Working with Cilium An end user's perspective of using Cilium. 3. Cilium Service Mesh Cilium can be used as a highly efficient service mesh data plane. Let’s discuss the learnings from our beta, and the upcoming roadmap. We will leave time for Q&A, and an opportunity to meet Cilium maintainers and contributors.

[Choosing Cloud Native Technologies for the Journey to Multi-cloud](https://sched.co/ytpu)

Thursday May 19, 2022 15:25 - 16:00 CEST

Building, deploying and maintaining systems has become increasingly more complicated in recent years. Now, as engineers look toward migrating to multi-cloud architectures, systems and processes may need to be migrated to new technologies. But what choices are available, how do they fit together and how can the CNCF landscape help? This talk discusses the cloud native technologies that can be used to convert to a multi-cloud architecture and highlights some of the lessons learned from taking this journey on at Form3. The audience will learn: - How to decide if multi-cloud is essential for them - The fundamentals of deploying services across multiple clouds with Kubernetes - How to leverage Cilium to mesh together multiple clusters - The basics of event sourcing using NATS in the multi-cloud world - Resilient and performant data storage using CockroachDB This talk is useful for any new comers to the cloud native landscape, as well as those curious about going multi-cloud!

[Kubernetes Networking 101](https://sched.co/ytrV)

Friday May 20, 2022 11:00 - 12:30 CEST

Kubernetes Networking 101 will introduce attendees to the world of network communications in a hands on Cloud Native setting. This talk delivers a high level but completely practical end to end look at service communications within and without a Kubernetes cluster. Attendees will see how the many facets of Kubernetes networking come together to enable powerful communications solutions first hand. The tutorial begins with the simplest types of service communications, using Kubernetes services, DNS (CoreDNS) and CNI plugins (Cilium) to facilitate interprocess communications and load balancing. The tutorial builds additional scenarios on this base, including ingress (Emissary/Envoy), NodePort / HostPort features, load balancing (Metal-lb) and finally a short look at service mesh functionality (Linkerd). Upon completion of this tutorial, attendees will have a clear understanding of the Kubernetes communications possibilities and pointers to next steps in the learning journey.

[Logs Told Us It Was DNS, It Felt Like DNS, It Had To Be DNS, It Wasn’t DNS](https://sched.co/ytrw)

Friday May 20, 2022 11:55 - 12:30 CEST

It all started with a team reaching out because they had DNS issues during rolling updates. Business as usual when you host hundreds of applications on dozens of Kubernetes clusters… Four weeks later: We are reading kernel code to understand the corner cases of dropping Martian packets. Could this be the connection between gRPC client reconnect algorithms and the overflowing conntrack table we can feel but not see? In time, we solved the issue. And for once… it wasn't DNS! In this talk, we will focus on one of the most complex incidents we have faced in our Kubernetes environment. We will go through the debugging steps in detail, dive deep into the mysterious behaviors we discovered and explain how we finally addressed the incident by simply removing three lines of code.

[Better Bandwidth Management with eBPF](https://sched.co/ytsQ)

Friday May 20, 2022 14:00 - 14:35 CEST

Kubernetes provides many knobs for managing common system resources such as vCPUs and memory limits per Pod, but often forgotten is the effect of unbounded network communication in a cluster. A large churn of packets from several services can starve bandwidth for other services. Also, out of the box TCP congestion management is not optimal for Internet-facing services. In this talk we will explore how eBPF can be leveraged to dynamically insert logic for flexible, efficient and scalable rate limiting and bandwidth management on a per-Pod basis. This talk details: - The scalability limits of token bucket filters by the bandwidth plugin, and why EDT (Earliest Departure Time) combined with eBPF is a major step forward. - How TCP congestion control with BBR can now be leveraged for Pods thanks to eBPF for significantly improving application latency and throughput. - The benefits of enforcing bandwidth limits at the egress point and considerations when to use ingress enforcement.

[A Guided Tour of Cilium Service Mesh](https://sched.co/yttj)

Friday May 20, 2022 16:00 - 16:35 CEST

The Cilium project is adding Service Mesh features to its existing eBPF-enabled, identity-aware Kubernetes networking capabilities. This demo-driven talk explores how this works, and shows why it’s now possible to create a service mesh without sidecars. - Demonstrate why, before eBPF, the sidecar model was necessary for accessing an application pod’s network traffic - Explore how Cilium uses eBPF programs to connect Kubernetes endpoints - Show how this makes the sidecar model unnecessary for identity-aware connectivity - Demonstrate an example Cilium Service Mesh in use - Compare the resources used (in both userspace and the kernel) for both models Along the way, this talk will clarify some container and kernel concepts so that attendees can leave with a mental model of how eBPF-enabled service mesh really works.

Make sure you stop by the Cilium booth to get your Cilium swag and if you are visiting virtually, we will have virtual office hours on Wednesday 18th May 12:30-13:15 CEST. See you there!
