---
path: '/blog/2024/01/18/cilium-kubecon-eu-2024'
date: '2024-01-18T12:00:00.000Z'
title: 'Cilium in Paris! See you at KubeCon Europe 2024'
isFeatured: false
ogImage: KubeConParis.png
ogSummary: 'There is an amazing lineup of Cilium activities at KubeCon + CloudNativeCon'
categories:
  - Community
---

There will be lots of Cilium-related activity at KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe
in Paris! We'll keep this page updated with more details as they are published.

- Sign up for the new [Cilium Certified Associate
  exam](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/cilium-certified-associate-cca/)!

- Come to the [Cilium + eBPF Day](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/co-located-events/cilium-ebpf-day/) co-located event

- Attend the Maintainers' Track session

  These are the details for our maintainer track session, we hope to see you there :)

  [Cilium: Connecting, Observing, and Securing Service Mesh and Beyond with EBPF - Liz Rice & Maartje Eyskens, Isovalent; Nico Meisenzahl, white duck; Vlad Ungureanu, Palantir Technologies](https://kccnceu2024.sched.com/event/1Yhfl/cilium-connecting-observing-and-securing-service-mesh-and-beyond-with-ebpf-liz-rice-maartje-eyskens-isovalent-nico-meisenzahl-white-duck-vlad-ungureanu-palantir-technologies?iframe=no&w=100%&sidebar=yes&bg=no)

  Wednesday March 20, 2024 15:25 - 16:00 CET

  Welcome to Cilium's maintainer track session where you'll get an update on how Cilium is expanding the frontiers of cloud native networking, observability, and security. After graduating and becoming the de-facto standard CNI for Kubernetes, what comes next? We'll start with a brief overview of each part of the project before giving a update on Cilium Service Mesh's mutual authentication. Next, we'll dive into how Cilium is expanding beyond Kubernetes with load balancing and multi-cloud networking and into runtime enforcement with Tetragon. In this session, you'll hear from Cilium contributors and users Isovalent, Palantir, and white duck.

- Come and have a chat at the Cilium kiosk in the Project Pavilion throughout
  the event

## Cilium Talks at KubeCon EU 2024 Full Schedule

[Connecting Cloud Native: Cilium + eBPF Day - Laurent Bernaille, Datadog & Bill Mulligan, Isovalent](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/co-located-events/cncf-hosted-co-located-schedule/)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 09:00 - 09:10 CET

The Opening Session for Cilium + eBPF Day EU 2024

[Lessons from Building Scalable Network Policy Enforcement with eBPF - Hemanth Malla, Datadog & Joe Stringer, Isovalent](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFe0/lessons-from-building-scalable-network-policy-enforcement-with-ebpf-hemanth-malla-datadog-joe-stringer-isovalent?iframe=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 09:50 - 10:15 CET

eBPF has unlocked new levels of performance and scalability for container networking. Cilium has leveraged eBPF to implement a plethora of network policy features. Kubernetes scalability has been improving with every new release, and clusters with 5k+ nodes are increasingly common. Cilium’s policy framework needs to scale for hundreds of thousands of pods while dealing with complex scenarios like high pod churn environments. In this talk, Cilium maintainers will share lessons learnt from years of programming Kubernetes abstractions directly into the kernel space using eBPF. You’ll learn about how cilium efficiently intercepts traffic for enforcement both at L4 and L7, tricks used by cilium to minimize CPU overhead on each node, and some design decisions that have been instrumental in squeezing high-performance out of the kernel regardless of the number of pods. Finally, we’ll discuss strategies you can follow to improve the debuggability of eBPF-based networking datapaths.

[⚡ Lightning Talk: Falco, Tracee and Tetragon: eBPF Runtime Observability and Security Tools Differences - Kyle Quest, Slim.AI](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFee/cl-lightning-talk-falco-tracee-and-tetragon-ebpf-runtime-observability-and-security-tools-differences-kyle-quest-slimai?iframe=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 10:30 - 10:35 CET

Falco, Tracee and Tetragon are popular eBPF-based runtime observability and security tools. Which tool is better? How are they different in terms of use and in terms of their design? Which one should you choose? What are the best use cases for each tool? This talk will focus on the eBPF-related differences in those tools including the eBPF application design, eBPF libraries each tool uses, eBPF features leveraged by each tool, and types of eBPF hooks used. default tracepoint and kprobes, data exposed in the events generated by each tool. The talk will also give an overview of the trade-offs, gaps and benefits those tools have based on their differences. If you are a user trying to understand what eBPF runtime tool is best for you or if you are a developer trying to build your own eBPF runtime tool this talk will help you answer the top questions you might have.

[⚡ Lightning Talk: Optimizing Cluster Workloads: Cilium Envoy on DPU - Shatakshi Mishra & Abed Mohammad Kamaluddin, Marvell Technology](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFey/cl-lightning-talk-optimizing-cluster-workloads-cilium-envoy-on-dpu-shatakshi-mishra-abed-mohammad-kamaluddin-marvell-technology?iframe=no&w=100%&sidebar=yes&bg=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 10:40 - 10:45 CET

The Envoy Proxy plays a pivotal role in providing Layer 7 functionalities like Ingress, Gateway API, Network Policies, and Protocol Visibility as part of the Cilium agent. In Cilium version 1.14, deploying the Envoy proxy as a DaemonSet is supported, introducing intriguing deployment scenarios. One compelling option is transitioning these features to the DPUs. Modern SmartNICs and DPUs offer additional power-efficient compute capacity on servers with hardware accelerations tailored for specialized workloads. This study delves into an architecture for provisioning the Cilium Envoy Proxy to an OCTEON10 DPU, addressing challenges encountered in this process. The goal is to unlock the substantial compute potential of DPUs, optimizing resource utilization and enabling the host machine to handle an increased load of application workloads.

[Bee-Lieve in the Metadata: Pollenating Build Attestations on Kubernetes with Tetragon and EBPF - Tom Meadows, TestifySec](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFfN/bee-lieve-in-the-metadata-pollenating-build-attestations-on-kubernetes-with-tetragon-and-ebpf-tom-meadows-testifysec?iframe=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024 11:05 - 11:30 CET

Like bees making honey, we developers forage the internet for code that we borrow and thread together to create software. It’s built, uploaded and shared, resulting in hundreds of thousands (if not millions) of software artefacts being built each day. For an unlucky few, attackers seek to infiltrate the build process like a hornet attacking a beehive. If they successfully attack a project with a large user base, the impact could be unprecedented, leading to the big bad ‘Game Over’ message rolling across the screen. In 2022, A Kubernetes-aware, Security Observability tool called Tetragon was released. This talk shows how the project serves as the key to the creation of a tool for securing build systems on Kubernetes. By leveraging Tetragon and eBPF, Attestagon aims to produce concise and cryptographically verifiable metadata. Come to this talk if you wish to see how any busy bee can inspect it to see whether a package was indeed sealed and delivered in the way the author intended.

[Meshing It up Securely: How Roche Manages Network Connectivity for 1000+ Edge Clusters - Hector Monsalve & Edgar Pardo, Roche](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFg2/meshing-it-up-securely-how-roche-manages-network-connectivity-for-1000-edge-clusters-hector-monsalve-edgar-pardo-roche?iframe=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 11:40 - 12:05 CET

Roche, one of the largest global healthcare companies, has embarked on the challenging journey of building a modern, cloud native edge compute platform that helps to run applications on customer premises, like laboratories or hospitals. In this talk, we will discuss the challenges of highly protected environments and show how leveraging Cilium Service Mesh can bring “the firewall” closer to the workload. This not only allows for more fine-grained traffic control but also simplifies the operations and configuration of network policies using a GitOps approach, alongside the deployment of workloads. Going beyond this, we’ll also look at some of the more advanced features of Cilium - like sending cluster traffic that targets the cloud via a specific forward proxy before it leaves the customer premises.

[Revolutionizing Mesh Layers: Transitioning from Istio to Cilium at the New York Times - Ahmed Bebars & Pete Saia, The New York Times](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFgU/revolutionizing-mesh-layers-transitioning-from-istio-to-cilium-at-the-new-york-times-ahmed-bebars-pete-saia-the-new-york-times?iframe=no&w=100%&sidebar=yes&bg=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 12:15 - 12:40 CET

Networking isn’t an easy task to achieve, and with scale, that can grow out of control quickly. We are always looking to improve the performance and ensure the traffic passes through the most efficient route but with more capabilities. Adding a service mesh to ensure better availability and many other features can be a bit tricky. We will discuss the intricacies of the shared platform mesh layer design. We will dive into our decision to explore the evolution of Cilium, which was initially used only as a Container Network Interface (CNI) that has now become a feature-rich, multi-region mesh layer. Ahmed and Pete will discuss the strategic decisions and implementation processes that allowed Cilium to replace many of Istio seamlessly. This has resulted in a scalable architecture and a significant performance and resource optimization boost. The audience will learn how the team strategically leveraged Cilium to unlock new possibilities in managing their platform mesh layer.

[Supercharge Kubernetes Networking with Cilium and IPv6 - Daneyon Hansen, Solo.io](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFh4/supercharge-kubernetes-networking-with-cilium-and-ipv6-daneyon-hansen-soloio?iframe=yes&w=100%&sidebar=yes&bg=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 13:30 - 13:55 CET

Get ready for an in-depth journey into IPv6 networking with Cilium! In this session, we dive deep into the powerful IPv6 capabilities of Cilium to supercharge your Kubernetes applications. Join us to uncover the extensive range of IPv6 features that Cilium brings to Kubernetes environments. From ultra-high throughput powered by BIG TCP to transition mechanisms such as NAT46/64, you'll see firsthand how Cilium elevates the IPv6 networking game in Kubernetes. Whether you're a seasoned Kubernetes pro or just getting started, this session promises valuable insights into harnessing the full potential of Cilium for IPv6 workloads.

[Cilium Beyond Linux: Extending eBPF to Windows Infrastructure - Chandan Aggarwal & Alan Jowett, Microsoft](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFiT/cilium-beyond-linux-extending-ebpf-to-windows-infrastructure-chandan-aggarwal-alan-jowett-microsoft?iframe=no&w=100%&sidebar=yes&bg=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 15:15 - 15:40 CET

Cilium eBPF offers significant performance improvements and advanced features exclusively for Linux users today. Would you believe it if I say “Cilium eBPF programs can run on Windows and reap the same benefits as Linux”. If you're intrigued by these advancements, this session promises valuable insights. The session will cover the current capabilities of Cilium Windows, encompassing L4 load balancers, network policy and observability and outline the roadmap for future milestones in this domain. There are a number of diverse challenges encountered while enabling these features and adapting cilium eBPF programs for the Windows environment. Exploring the array of challenges faced during this development, such as supporting the eBPF verifier, cilium dynamic generation of eBPF programs, integrating TC programs and eBPF maps, this session explores our detailed strategy for overcoming these challenges and further continuing development of eBPF on top of windows.

[Speedrun Through Splicing Sockets with Sockmap - Jakub Sitnicki, Cloudflare](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFjR/speedrun-through-splicing-sockets-with-sockmap-jakub-sitnicki-cloudflare?iframe=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 16:25 - 16:50 CET

Network proxies have one thing in common - they push data from one side to the other. If the proxy doesn't access the data, then we can delegate the task of moving it between sockets to the operating system. In Linux, applications can move data in batches between sockets using the splice() syscall. However, this isn't the only method available! Linux network stack also offers an alternative API to transfer packets between sockets, called sockmap, which leverages the eBPF technology. In fact, your systems might be already using sockmap. This is what powers the transparent L7 filtering and socket-level policy enforcement in Cilium. In this talk, we will go over the fundamentals of sockmap API, its evolution and features, as well as its internal design. We'll also explore the existing caveats and limitations. By the end, you should have a clear understanding of what it takes to use the sockmap API or, if you are a Cilium user, what role sockmap plays in your existing K8S cluster.

[⚡ Lightning Talk: Taming Noisy Network Neighbours with Cilium and eBPF - Anton Ippolitov, Datadog](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFjs/cl-lightning-talk-taming-noisy-network-neigbours-with-cilium-and-ebpf-anton-ippolitov-datadog?iframe=no&w=100%&sidebar=yes&bg=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 17:00 - 17:05 CET

Who likes noisy neighbours? Imagine enjoying a peaceful and quiet Kubernetes evening, when those miscreants show up and wreck the network latency and throughput on your shared nodes! In order to safeguard fair network resource distribution, Cilium has introduced the Bandwidth Manager feature: an egress bandwidth rate-limiting mechanism to keep those noisy neighbours in check. This short talk will give an overview of how the Bandwidth Manager does its job by leveraging the Fair Queue (FQ) packet scheduler and eBPF-based Earliest Departure Time (EDT) algorithm. Additionally, the attendees will learn about the performance implications of enabling this feature and potential pitfalls in Cloud environments.

[⚡ Lightning Talk: Unveiling 5 Essential Insights from Cilium Implementation in a Multi-Tenant Kubernetes Environment - Victor Varza, Adobe Inc](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YFk9/cl-lightning-talk-unveiling-5-essential-insights-from-cilium-implementation-in-a-multi-tenant-kubernetes-environment-victor-varza-adobe-inc?iframe=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 17:10 - 17:15 CET

Meeting foundational requirements for a developer platform is crucial for key aspects such as security, scalability, reliability, and cost-effectiveness. At Adobe, Victor is actively engaged in constructing and operating a cross-cloud, multi-tenant Kubernetes-based platform. This initiative empowers product teams to develop and deploy services with heightened speed and efficiency. Beyond container orchestration, the network layer stands out as a paramount aspect of platform engineering. In this presentation, Victor will highlight five key insights on the indispensable role of Cilium in establishing and implementing a minimum viable Kubernetes namespace in a multi-tenant cluster aligned with best practices.

[Defending the Future: Cilium + eBPF Day Closing - Bill Mulligan, Isovalent & Laurent Bernaille, Datadog](https://colocatedeventseu2024.sched.com/event/1YGSv/defending-the-future-cilium-ebpf-day-closing-bill-mulligan-isovalent-laurent-bernaille-datadog?iframe=no&w=100%&sidebar=yes&bg=no)

Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 17:20 - 17:30 CET

The Closing Session for Cilium + eBPF Day EU 2024

You can find the complete schedule in this [blog post](/).

À bientôt à Paris!
